> Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

Making coffee;
Washing dishes;
A choice of your own.

A:

* Making coffee

Pseudocode:

FUNCTION makeCoffee
SET keurig to on
SEQUENCE
    Add water to desired level
    Insert kcup into keurig
    Place mug under nozzle
    Select desired amount of coffee
IF waterLevel >= kcup
    Brew coffee to desired amount
    ELSE request more water
END IF
END FUNCTION

* Washing dishes

Pseudocode:

FUNCTION washDishes
WHILE dishes in sink
REPEAT
    Place dishes in dishwasher
UNTIL no dishes in sink
END WHILE
SEQUENCE
    Add detergent to dishwasher
    Close dishwasher
    Press start
END FUNCTION

* Making guacamole

Pseudocode:

FUNCTION makeGuac
SEQUENCE
    Add sliced avocados to bowl
    Add chopped tomatoes to bowl
    Add chopped onions to bowl
    Add diced jalapenos to bowl
    Add minced garlic to bowl
    Add salt to bowl
    Add pepper to bowl
REPEAT 
    Mix ingredients with fork
UNTIL well blended
END FUNCTION

> As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

A:

* Pandora uses an algorithm to find and play songs based on what the listener has "liked," "disliked" or listened to previously. Pandora stands out because, as some people claim, over time, Pandora "just gets you" - meaning they're prettu successful at nailing which songs you'll like in the future based on the information they've collected from you previously.

* Instagram uses an algorithm to suggest other accounts to follow, based on the content you follow and the mutual connections you have with those accounts. Instagram stands out because the accounts it pulls up as suggestions seem to be fairly accurate - at least for me, I am usually pleased with my search results on Instagram.

* Waze uses an algorithm that predicts the fastest route from point A to point B. Waze stands out because (for one, it has saved me so many headaches and I would drive into a lake if Waze told me to) its accuracy is astounding. It will even update itself mid-route if it finds a better route.

> Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

A: An efficient algorithm should result in a desired outcome through as few, precise steps as possible - and quickly. An inefficient algorithm might have unclear - maybe several - steps, that take much longer to achieve.